Thanks to HubSpot for sponsoring this
video. So, something really big actually
happened December 2025 and most of
people didn't even realize that. Entry
Cupsy tweet about this last week. It's
very hard to communicate how much
programming has changed due to AI in the
last two months, specifically since last
December. And Greg from OpenAI also
talked about this. Since December,
there's step function improvements in
what model and tools are capable of. and
a few engineers had told him that their
job has fundamentally changed since
December 2025. So what actually happened
in December 2025? In short words, the
latest model introduced in is finally
ready for fully autonomous longrunning
tasks. So with AI, the ultimate dream is
always that while we are sleeping, AI
can just work on task fully autonomously
24/7. Even back 2023, the most popular
project if you remember is called
AutoGBT. It is first time those 40
autonomous agentic system was introduced
and they have fairly basic and simple
architecture that using GP4 as a model
to autonomously break down a list of
tasks based on users go and has simple
memory storage to store the result and
people were doing some pretty crazy
stuff like just give a go make a
$100,000 and let it loop through task
infinitely until completed. Back then
the system just break and fail miserably
because the model is simply not ready.
But since December last year this really
changed. The models have significantly
higher quality long-term coherence and
they can parse through much larger and
longer tasks and we saw all sort of
different experimentation came out from
industry. Firstly from January we got
this super hot concept called rough loop
and most of basic and simple agent
iteration loop to force model work
longer so that it can take more complex
tasks. They just for loop the model with
some simple condition checks. But
already we start seeing the difference.
And one week later, cursor also released
their experimentation where they use GPD
5.2 to autonomously build a browser from
scratch with 3 million lines of code.
And entropic also released this
experimentation they had where they get
a team of cloud codes to autonomously
working on a s compiler from scratch for
two weeks and in the end it delivered a
functional version with zero manual
coding. It can even run doom inside this
compiler as well. And same time open
claw start getting attention and had
this explosive growth that we never seen
before. And it was very difficult to
understand what was going on with open
claw cuz from outside it's very easy to
categorize open claw just be another
menace but live inside your own computer
and can also access from telegram like
why this so popular and only later after
I use deep player I realized that the
real difference is that open claw
represent this type of always on
longunning fully autonomous agents that
is very different from all the other
agentic system we used before where
human is main driver to prompt for the
next action. Open claw is always on and
it is peractive. And this autonomous
feeding is created by a fairly simple
architecture where it has memory context
layer with a trigger and chron job to
autonomously take actions and have the
full computer access which is powerful
environment it can operates in. And I
believe open claw is the first project
that really open up the biggest paradigm
shift in 2026 that we are moving from a
co-pilot simple task based agent system
to those long running fully autonomous
agent. Something that's always on always
ready autonomously delivering super
complex coordinated work. This is a
critical shift you have to understand.
The model today is actually much more
powerful than you think as long as you
design right assist system to unlock it.
And this is the crux of what I want to
talk about today. the harness engineer
to reable long running autonomous
systems. If it's the first time you hear
about harness engineer, this is like
evolution from what we've been
previously talked about which is context
engineer or prompt engineer. So
previously we really focus on how do you
optimize the prompts within the
effective context window to get a model
have the best performance for a single
agent loop session. But harness engineer
is really focused on those long
runninging tasks which means how do you
design a system that can works across
different sessions and multiple
different agents and how do you design
the right workflow to making sure the
relevant context will be retrieved for
each session and right set of toolings
to extract most out of models. This is a
fairly new concept but the good thing is
that industry already converged on some
best practice that you can use from
entropic versel lanching and many others
more goes through each one of them one
by one so you can see the patterns but
before we dive into this with this
paradigm shift fully atoms agents one of
the biggest opportunity for the next six
12 months is build open cloth for a
certain verticals which means you deeply
investigate and understand the
end-to-end workflow of a certain
vertical and build a Tom's agent with
the correct environment and tooling to
enable the end toend process that's why
I want to introduce you to this awesome
research HubSpot did on the AI adoption
in email marketing report. It is
fascinating report for you to understand
for a vertical like email marketing
where people actually use AI today and
what has gaps because this report
showcase clear workflow and opportunity
in email marketing that you can
potentially automate. They survey
hundreds of email marketers from top
companies to understand exactly how AI
is reshaping their workflows. They talk
about why marketers are still doing a
lot of heavy editing. What were the cost
to it as well as the biggest challenge
they are facing today when implementing
AI in the email marketings and each of
them is a big opportunity for you to
build a fully autonomous agents. They
even dive into the specific KPI that
they care more about and AI has showed
proven results as well as what exactly
things email marketers are really want
from AI. So if you're a builder who are
thinking about the next bit agent
product to build, I highly recommend you
go check out this awesome resource. I
put a link in the description below for
you to download for free and thanks
HubSpot for sponsoring this video. Now
let's get back to harness engineer for
long running agent systems and at high
level there are three learnings I took
away from those. One is that for long
running task agents the critical part of
system design is creating this legible
environment where each sub agent or
sessions can actually understand where
things are at and most likely there are
some workflows that can be done to
enforce legibility of the environment
and I'll expand a bit more on that. The
second is verification is critical. You
can improve system output significantly
by allowing it to verify its work
effectively with faster feedback loop.
And third is that we need to trust the
model more. Instead of building
specialized tooling that wrap a lot of
reasoning and logic prematurely, we
should give model max context with
generic tooling that they natively
understand and let it just explore like
human. And I'll unpack those three
things one by one as we go through each
block here. Firstly, this entropics
effective harness for long running
agents blocks. So they've experimented
using cloud code SDK to build a
specialized agent for super long running
tasks like build a clone of claw.ai
website and the very first failures they
observe is that firstly agent tend to do
too much at once. Essentially it will
always try to oneshot the whole app and
this led to the model running out of
context in the middle of its
implementation and leaving the next
session to start with the feature half
implemented or documented. Then the
agent would have to guess what actually
happened and spend substantial time
trying to get the basic app working
again. And second failure they observe
is that agent tend to declare job
complete prematurely. You probably
experienced this a few times yourself as
well. The cloud code or cursor will just
claim the pure or feature is completed
but once you test it it actually didn't
work. So their approach to solve those
default model failure behavior is that
first they set up initial environment
that lays the foundation for all the
features that given prompt requires
which set up the agent to work step by
step and feature by feature. So this is
kind of similar to the plan or PRD
approach that we normally took and
second is that it start prompt each
agent to make incremental progress
towards its goal while also leaving the
environment in clean state at the end of
each session. What they did is starting
designed this two-part solution. First
they will have this initializer agent
that use a specialized prompt to ask
model to set up initial environment with
a insh script which will set up dev
server for example so that next model
don't need to worry about those things
and also a claw progress.txt txt file
that keeps logs on what agent have done
as well as initial get commit that shows
what file has been added. Then a coding
agent for each subsequent session to ask
a model to make incremental progress
then leave structured updates and all
those efforts are really try to serve
one purpose is how can they define an
environment where agents can quickly
understand the state of work when
starting with a fresh context window. So
the workflow is that the initializer
agent would firstly try to set up a
environment or you can call it
documentation system to track and
maintain overall plan and environment
they design here is firstly they will
have a feature list documents to prevent
agent oneshotting the whole app or
prematurely considering the project
complete. Instead they will get
initializer agent to break down the
project into over 200 features and lock
them in a local JSON file looks
something like this where each task has
detailed spec as well as pass or fail
state. At default all task will be
marked as fail. So force model to always
look at overall project goal and the
progress pick up highest priority task
and do the next thing. But to make this
workflow works they also need a way to
force a model leave the environment in a
clean state after making the code
change. In their experiment they found
the best way is to ask a model to commit
its progress to git with descriptive
commit message and write a summary of
its progress in progress file. But with
just documentation and context
environment itself is not enough because
mono at default has this tendency to
mark something as completed without
proper testing. And at the beginning
they were just prompting cloud code to
always do the test after the code change
by doing unit test or API test for the
dev server. But all those things were
often failed to recognize that a feature
is not working end to end. But things
really start changing when they give
model proper tooling to do the end to
end test by itself like puppeteer mcp or
chrome dev tool where agent was able to
identify and fix bug that were not
directly obvious from the code itself.
So basically they are setting up the
structure where they have the
initialized agent to break down the
user's goal into a list of features
alongside insh to be able to run the dev
server and progress files. So next
coding agent can just read the feature
list to get understanding about the
overall project plan and pick up high
priority task and progress file and get
log to understand where things are at.
Then run in.sh to start dev server
immediately and do end to end test to
verify the environment is clean so that
it can get a full picture faster
feedback loop while each new session and
context window happen. In open AI's blog
they talk about very similar thing. You
have to making sure your application
environment is legible. make the whole
repository knowledge the system or
record. Initially they put a gigantic
agents.mmd file and fail in predictable
ways because it's just too much context
for any agent to manage and maintain. So
what they did is design a proper dock
environment structure and treated
agents.md file as a table of contents.
So they set up this documentation system
from architectures the design docs the
execution plan DB schema product specs
and design front end plan security and
many more and put this table of content
into agents.mmd file so the agent can
actually retrieve back relevant
information when needed and this enables
progressive disclosure and open actually
do it even further they will try to push
not only the code knowledge but also
Google doc slack message all those other
fragmented information feed data into
the repository as a repository local
version artifacts. So the agent can also
retrieve because from the agent point of
view if anything can't be accessed in
the environment then effectively it
didn't exist. But again documentation
itself didn't really keep a fully agent
generated codebase coherent. They also
introduce certain programmatic workflow
to enforce invariance. For example, they
layer domain architecture with explicit
crosscutting boundaries which allow them
to enforce those rules with custom
checks, llinters and structural tests
which can be automatically triggered and
injected by every git pre-commit and
those type architecture usually you will
postpone until you have hundreds of
engineer in traditional software
company. But with coding agent is an
early prerequisite. Within those
boundaries, you allow teams and agent to
significant freedom in how solutions are
expressed without micromanaging and
worry the architecture going to drift.
Meanwhile, they also improve the
codebase a lot. For example, they made
the app bootable per g work tree. So, so
codex can just launch and drive many
different instance and they also wire
chrome dev to protocol into the agent
runtime so that the agent can reproduce
bugs valid fix by DOM snapshots,
screenshots and navigation. And with all
environment and workflow set up, the
repository finally cross a minimum
threshold where codecs can end to end
drive a new feature. So every time when
codex receive a single prompt, the agent
will start validate the current state of
codebase, reproduce a reported bug,
record a video demonstrate the failure,
implement a fix, validate fix by driving
the application, record a second video
demonstrating the resolution and
eventually merge the change. So those
two blocks jook is very good learnings
and necessary harness system you need to
put in place for fully autonomous
system. Meanwhile, there also third
learnings. Quite often when we build
agents, especially vertical specific
agents, our tendencies to build
specialized tooling to do domain
specific task. The learning god is that
large learning model almost always work
better with generic tool that they
natively understand. Versel released
this awesome article about how they
redesign their test to SQL agent. So
they spent months building sophisticated
internal text to SQL agent DZ with
specialized to heavy prompt engineering
and careful context management. But as
many of us experienced before those type
of system kind of work but it's very
fragile slow and require constant
maintenance because every new edge cases
happen you need to inject new prompt to
the agent but later they tried one thing
that totally changed the trajectory they
deleted most of the specialized tool
from the agent down to a single batch
command tool and with this much simpler
architecture the agent actually
performed 3.5 times faster with 37%
fewer tokens and success rate increased
from 80% to 100%. Similar learning has
been shared from entropy team as well
where they talk about instead of having
specialized search linked execute tools
they just have one batch tool where you
can run grip t npm npm run linked and
fundamentally I think it's because all
those large model is much more familiar
with those code native tools that has
billions of training tokens versus
bespoke tool calling JSON that it need
to generate and I've talked about this
in programmatic tool calling video that
I released last week and I believe it is
similar fundamental principles here but
the foundation of those simple
architecture is again the good context
and documentation environment where
model can use generic tools to retrieve
context progressively and it is same
case with open claw. One reason open
claw is so interesting is that they have
a surprisingly simple but effective
context environment. They have list of
documentations to store core information
with this foundation. They only have the
most basic tooling like read, write,
edit files, run batch commands and send
messages. All the risk is coming from
giving agent environment to retrieve
relevant contexts plus a big skill
libraries to expand capabilities. So
those are three practical learnings
about how to do harness engineer for
long running complex agents by setting
up a legible context environment to
enable each session to grab context
effectively and write workflow and
tooling so that model can verify it work
effectively drive faster feedback loop
and trust agent with generic tools that
it natively understands. If you're
interested, I'm going to share more in
depth about how do I take this learnings
and transform into a development life
cycle process in AI builder club. We
have courses and work through about VIP
coding and building production agents.
And every week myself and industry
experts share the latest practical
learnings. So if you're interested in
learning what I'm learning every day,
you can click on the link below to join
the community. I hope you enjoy this
video. Thank you and I see you next